Cisco in an hour


What needs to happen in order for 2 computers to communicate with each other?


OSI 7-Layer Model
    Used to help conceptualize the different parts of network connections

	The top layer is hte most concrete, with each subsequent layer becoming more abstract (relying less on the physical connections and more on the code.)

	The layers:

	  *Note : 
	  The layers are pretty self-contained.
	  If you are working on a particular layer, you should not have to think too much about the other layers.

	   1) Physical
	       How computer are physcially connected.
		   Things like electrons running across wires, radio signals pulsing through the air...

		  A brief history:
		     Thicknet
			     A single coaxial cable runs throughtout the network, "vampire taps" go into thte cable and leech the data out.
			ehinnet
			    A single Coaxial cable runs throughout the network
				T-Junctions used to slice connections

			In Thicknet and Thinnet, all data is sent to all computers.
			Each computer added increases the power drain on the entire system, degrading service.

			
			Token Ring
			    Each omputer is connected in a ring to each other.
				
				Each computer has commnad of the network resources at a time. This is called "having the token".

				The network sends a "token" throughout the ring, which contains the identity of the computer with the token. All other computers must wait to use the network.

				No possibilities of collisions.
			Ethernet
			    Multiple comptuers connect to a single hub or switch.
				Hub: Broadcasts the data to all the computers.
				Switch: Sends data to a specific computer (Needs to look at Data Link Layer)
	            The more computers you add to an ethernet network the greater the chance of collisions.
	   2) Data Link
	       Data Link Layer
		       Point-to-point transmission betwen dvices on the same (local) network

			   Each device is given a unique 6-byte MAC (Media Access Control) address, this is set on each network card when they are made.

			   Data is packaged into frames.

			   Ethernet Frame:
			   <prefix><dest><source><...>< data ><checksum>
			      8      6      6      6  46-1500   4

		       Destination and source: MAC addresses
			   ...: Information about frame type
			   checksum: to ensure data integrity

			   MTU
			       Maximum Transmission Unit
				   1500 bytes for ethernet.
	   3) Network
	   4) Transport
	   5) Session
	   6) Presentation
	   7) Application

